python - launches the interpreter of our scripts
quit() - ends the python session
mkdir - command line command that makes a new directory. in powershell, they use a different command.
cd - command line command to change the directory
dir - lists the aspects of the current directory.
IDE - Integrated development environment. Not just an interpreter, but also tools useful in debugging, executing, and testing.
IDLE - Integrated development and Learning environment. It's the default python bundled IDE.
print - function used to display strings in python.
# - hashtag used for commenting in lines of code, or also as a temporary way to disable a line of code.
+ - add
- - subtract
/ - devide
* - multiply
% - provides the remainder after a division
< - less than
> - greater than
<= - less than or equal
>= - greater than or equal
== - checks of something is equal or not
{} - used for inserting the values of variables into strings
print(f"") - f in this case is used to format the string. necessary when inserting string containing variables
'' - used for strings.
"" - also used for strings.
.format - equivalent to the f in print(f"") but can be used as a function on the end of a string.
\n - new line 'escape'
""" - sequence used when you want to spread a string over multiple lines. keeps things nice and neat. can use ''' if necessary.
\ - escape function. variety of these that serve different purposed. \n newline \\ will allow a \ to be printed. \" will allow a " to be printed within a print("")
\t - escape that tabs the line
end=' ' - goes to the next line without inserting a \n into the file.
input() - triggers a prompt to the use to provide information.
int() - changes the variable 'type' to an integer
float() - changes the variable 'type' to a floating value.
from - used when designating a particular module
sys - a module that contains a variety of useful functions to use with python
import argv - imports the function/variable argv which can be used to define multiple thigns as variables when unpacking.
open - function used to open a file - requires a mode for what you intend to do with it. read, write, append, etc. 
.read - function that is used on an opened file
close - closes a currently open file.
readline - function that reads a specified line
truncate - function that erases the content of a file from the current line down.
write() - function that will write to a file. 
seek(0) - moves to the first byte in the file.
os.path - module that is useful for determining directories and their paths. this is a module (os module) function (path function) that we imported specifically
exists - this is a value that is stored that you can use when checking if a file/dir is present.
def - define. used in writing a function within the script.
*args - used when there are going to be multiple variables unpacked within the function, but arent defined specifically in the () following the function. the * allows an infinite number of arguments to be used when running the script as long as those arguments are unpacked for the function.
+= - basically takes a variable and adds the defined number to it. good for doing 'stepping'
return - does a mathematical calculation and returns the result.

